h1. scouchdb : Persisting Scala Objects in CouchDB And Scala Language View Server

scouchdb offers a Scala interface to using CouchDB. Scala offers objects and classes as the natural way to abstract entities, while CouchDB stores artifacts as JSON documents. scouchdb makes it easy to use the object interface of Scala for persistence and management of Scala objects as JSON documents.


h2. Motivation

The primary motivation for making scouchdb is to offer a form of CouchDB driver to manipulate objects in a completely non-intrusive manner. The Scala objects are not CouchDB aware and remain completely transparent of any CouchDB dependency. Incorporating CouchDB specific attributes like id and rev take away a lot of reusability goodness from domain objects and make them constrained only for the specific platform.

h2. Compiling the Scala View Server

 * sbt -- version 0.7.7 of sbt is required and can be found on the "google code simple-build-tool page":http://code.google.com/p/simple-build-tool/ .  Download  "sbt-launch-0.7.7.jar":http://simple-build-tool.googlecode.com/files/sbt-launch-0.7.7.jar .  In the same directory where you place the jar file, you'll need an executable script (I called it sbt-0.7.7):
==
    java -Xmx512M -jar `dirname $0`/sbt-launch-0.7.7.jar "$\@"
==
 * put that directory on your path
 * in the scouchdb project directory, type `sbt-0.7.7` to launch sbt
 * run these commands from the sbt prompt  
 - update
 - clean
 - compile
 - package (creates jar file in ./target/scala_2.9.0-1/scouchdb_2.9.0-1-0.7.jar)

h2. Setting up the view server to run with CouchDB/BigCouch
 * The original instructions are in the document:"Scala View Server":http://wiki.github.com/debasishg/scouchdb/scala-view-server .  This is the condensed version for non scala experts.
 * Modify the CouchDB local.ini file.  Assuming your project director is $HOME/scouchdb, the local.ini file should look like:  
==
[query_servers]
scala=scala -classpath $HOME/scouchdb/target/scala_2.9.0-1/scouchdb_2.9.0-1-0.7.jar:$HOME/scouchdb/lib_managed/scala_2.9.0-1/compile/sjson_2.9.0-1-0.13.jar:$HOME/scouchdb/lib_managed/scala_2.9.0-1/compile/dispatch-core_2.9.0-1-0.8.3.jar:$HOME/scouchdb/lib_managed/scala_2.9.0-1/compile/dispatch-json_2.9.0-1-0.8.3.jar -DCDB_VIEW_CLASSPATH=$HOME/scouchdb/target/scala_2.9.0-1/scouchdb_2.9.0-1-0.7.jar:$HOME/scouchdb/lib_managed/scala_2.9.0-1/compile/sjson_2.9.0-1-0.13.jar:$HOME/scouchdb/lib_managed/scala_2.9.0-1/compile/dispatch-core_2.9.0-1-0.8.3.jar:$HOME/scouchdb/lib_managed/scala_2.9.0-1/compile/dispatch-json_2.9.0-1-0.8.3.jar:$HOME/scouchdb/lib_managed/scala_2.9.0-1/test/scalatest_2.9.0-1.6.1.jar scouch.db.VS "/tmp/view.txt"
==
 * To test if the view server is running correctly, you can run the command above from the command line (everything after the = sign).  The view server communicates via stdio, so type '["reset"]' and it should return true.

h2. Running the Test Cases
 * run couchdb server
 * sbt -- version 0.7.7 of sbt is required and can be found on the "google code simple-build-tool page":http://code.google.com/p/simple-build-tool/ .  Download  "sbt-launch-0.7.7.jar":http://simple-build-tool.googlecode.com/files/sbt-launch-0.7.7.jar .  In the same directory where you place the jar file, you'll need an executable script (I called it sbt-0.7.7):
==
    java -Xmx512M -jar `dirname $0`/sbt-launch-0.7.7.jar "$\@"
==
 * put that directory on your path
 * in the scouchdb project directory, type `sbt-0.7.7` to launch sbt
 * run these commands from the sbt prompt  
 - update
 - clean
 - compile
 - test-only scouch.db.SCouchDbSpec
(Note, as of Nov. 4, 2011 this test fails against bigcouch)

h2. A Scala view design document:

A minimal scala view (map only) design document looks like:
{
   "_id": "_design/return",
   "_rev": "25-c8c55f22e9802b1021e7644d05ddc537",
   "language": "scala",
   "views": {
       "doc": {
           "map": "(doc: dispatch.json.JsValue) => {import dispatch.json._;List(List(null,doc.toString()))}"
       }
   }
}

Anything that you wish to import needs to be on CDB_VIEW_CLASSPATH in the local.ini scala command. The document is dispatch.json.JsValue and the return value is List(List()).

h1. License

<pre>
This software is licensed under the Apache 2 license, quoted below.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.
</pre>

